README.md, before:

# Smart Photo Frame

## Introduction

This is a Smart Photo Frame to show a slideshow of pictures that were sent via email or via a Telegram Bot with the possibility to add more sources. Originally this was developed for my family, as we don't see each other so often and give a possibility to share images right from vacation or from far way. To run it completely, you need to create your own Telegram Bot token at *@BotFather*. Within your mailbox a folder named "Smart Photo Frame" should be present where all new photos for the frame will be automatically moved to.

## Recommended hardware and software

**Hardware:** Every RaspberryPi with Wireless connection (successfully running on Zero W)\
**Display:** Each HDMI connectable display

**System:** RaspberryPi OS (installation without Desktop is enough)\
**Python version:** 3.7+\
**Packages:** GitPython, requests, RPi.GPIO, urllib3, easywebdav2

## Installation guide

1. Install the package by cloning the repository
2. Create a new subfolder "images" (in this folder all images will be loaded)
3. Create your own config.ini file (see chapter for config)
4. If you want to be able to update the frame via Telegram, you need to store your GitHub login data in store manager on RasPi and copy the ".gitconfig" and ".git-credentials" files to "/root".
5. Connect an HDMI screen to the RasPi (TV, computer monitor, HDMI display, etc.)

## Folder structure

When repository is cloned, no subfolders are created. To store your images, during the first run, a subfolder named "images" will be created. Within this folder you can delete or add new photos manually.\
All other data is stored in the main folder of the cloned repository.

## Config file

The config file should be stored as **config.ini** in the same folder as the **main.py** and should look like the following:
```
[telegram]
token = <Telegram API Token>
allowedsenders = 123456789,<comma seperated Telegram user id's>
admins = <comma seperated Telegram user id's> ; will be allowed to send admin commands
auth_password = <admin password>
status_signal = True/False ; frame gives feedback via Telegram when it's started and shutdown
commands = [{"command": "getident", "description": "Get current external ip address"},
            {"command": "listimg", "description": "List all images stored on frame"},
            {"command": "getlog", "description": "Send log file as attachment"},
            {"command": "getconfig", "description": "Send configuration file as attachment"},
            {"command": "reboot", "description": "Reboot whole system"},
            {"command": "update", "description": "Update system with current repository"},
            {"command": "swsignaling", "description": "Switch the Telegram signaling"}]

[gmail]
account = <mail address>
password = <mail account password>
fileExtensions = jpg,JPG,png,PNG,<comma seperated list of allowed file extensions>

[gmx]
account = <mail address>
password = <mail account password>
hostname = <hostname of mail server>
fileExtensions = jpg,JPG,png,PNG,<comma seperated list of allowed file extensions>

[owncloud]
host = <hostname>
username = <username>
password = <password>
delete_after_download = True/False ; remote files on owncloud will be deleted 
subfolder = <foldername> ; subfolder on owncloud

[frame]
timer = 10 ; single photo display time in seconds 
blend = 750 ; blend time between two photos in ms
photocount = 200 ; amount of maximum photos to circle

[logging]
logToFile = True
logToScreen = True

[global]
language = EN ; available: EN & DE - other languages need to be added to texts.py
```

## Creating a Telegram Bot

You need to create your own Telegram Bot. For that just follow the tasks:
1. Open Telegram on your smartphone or in your browser (https://web.telegram.org/)
2. Search for the global contact *@BotFather*
3. Send the message "/newbot" and configure your Bot (name, settings, etc.)
4. Create or view the API Token of that Bot
5. Copy the token and store it in the config file as shown above
6. Open the conversation with the Bot

Now the Bot should be ready to receive messages. If you send messages to the Bot while the frame is not running, nothing is happening. To get a reply on your sent photos, you must run the **main.py**. In most cases the script must run as *sudo*.

## Preparing your mailbox

To only get those mails downloaded that are intended for the photo frame, you should create a subfolder in your mailbox. By default the system awaits the folder name to be **"Smart Photo Frame"**. You can change it in the source code as you want.\
New mails should be moved automatically to this subfolder or sorted out by an inbox rule.

## Creating the automatic run of the script

To run the frame automatically via bootup you additionally need to add the call of **main.py** to the "/etc/rc.local" file.

## Hardware enhancements

By adding hardware buttons to the RasPi you can offer your Frame users the possibility to handle the Frame. There are already preparations done for three buttons in sum. One button can be used to rise the display time of each photo in steps of 2 seconds. Another button can be used to lower the display time of each photo - down to 2 seconds. The third button can be used to properly shut down the whole RasPi (e.g. for moving from one place to another or at night).\
Those thre buttons are are mentioned to be installed on the following ports:
* Port 27: Rise the timer
* Port 19: Lower the timer
* Port 9: Shut down the system

All ports are configured as Pull-Up ports and need to be connected to ground.\
For my use case I soldered them directly on the RasPi and gave the buttons that raise and lower the timer a higher hardware button.

## Open tasks

- [ ] Complete the replacement of all texts in english and german
- [x] Implement another interconnection between frame and sender (OwnCloud, Dropbox, etc.)
- [ ] Find a different presenter application to also display videos

Commit message:

New features added; texts adjusted

README.md, after:

# Smart Photo Frame

## Introduction

This is a Smart Photo Frame to show a slideshow of pictures that were sent via emailm, via a Telegram Bot, or by dropping the files to an owncloud account with the possibility to add more sources. Originally this was developed for my family, as we don't see each other so often and give a possibility to share images right from vacation or from far way. To run it completely, you need to create your own Telegram Bot token at *@BotFather*. Within your mailbox a folder named "Smart Photo Frame" should be present where all new photos for the frame will be automatically moved to. In your Owncloud account all images should be uploaded to a subfolder named "images". 

## Recommended hardware and software

**Hardware:** Every RaspberryPi with Wireless connection (successfully running on Zero W)\
**Display:** Each HDMI connectable display

**System:** RaspberryPi OS (Lite installation is enough)\
**Python version:** 3.7+\
**Packages:** GitPython, requests, RPi.GPIO, urllib3, easywebdav2

## Installation guide

1. Install the package by cloning the repository
2. Create your own config.ini file (see chapter for config)
3. If you want to be able to update the frame via Telegram, you need to store your GitHub login data in store manager on RasPi and copy the ".gitconfig" and ".git-credentials" files to "/root".
4. Connect an HDMI screen to the RasPi (TV, computer monitor, HDMI display, etc.)

## Folder structure

When repository is cloned, no subfolders are created. To store your images, a subfolder named "images" will be created while importing the first image. Within this folder you can delete or add new photos manually or by Telegram command.\
All other data is stored in the main folder of the cloned repository.\
Automatic gernerated files by the frame are:\
* telegram_bot.db
* messages.log
If you delete these files manually after creation, maybe some errors can arise.

## Config file

The config file should be stored as **config.ini** in the same folder as the **main.py** and should look like the following:
```
[telegram]
token = <Telegram API Token>
allowedsenders = 123456789,<comma seperated Telegram user id's>
admins = <comma seperated Telegram user id's> ; will be allowed to send admin commands
auth_password = <admin password>
status_signal = True/False ; frame gives feedback via Telegram when it's started and shutdown
commands = [{"command": "getident", "description": "Get current external ip address"},
            {"command": "listimg", "description": "List all images stored on frame"},
            {"command": "getlog", "description": "Send log file as attachment"},
            {"command": "getconfig", "description": "Send configuration file as attachment"},
            {"command": "reboot", "description": "Reboot whole system"},
            {"command": "update", "description": "Update system with current master repository"},
            {"command": "swsignaling", "description": "Switch the Telegram signaling"}]

[gmail]
account = <mail address>
password = <mail account password>
fileExtensions = jpg,JPG,png,PNG,<comma seperated list of allowed file extensions>

[gmx]
account = <mail address>
password = <mail account password>
hostname = <hostname of mail server>
fileExtensions = jpg,JPG,png,PNG,<comma seperated list of allowed file extensions>

[owncloud]
host = <hostname>
username = <username>
password = <password>
delete_after_download = True/False ; remote files on owncloud will be deleted 
subfolder = <foldername> ; subfolder on owncloud

[frame]
timer = 10 ; single photo display time in seconds 
blend = 750 ; blend time between two photos in ms
photocount = 200 ; amount of maximum photos to circle

[logging]
logToFile = True
logToScreen = True

[global]
language = EN ; available: EN & DE - other languages need to be added to texts.py
```

## Creating a Telegram Bot

You need to create your own Telegram Bot. For that just follow the tasks:
1. Open Telegram on your smartphone or in your browser (https://web.telegram.org/)
2. Search for the global contact *@BotFather*
3. Send the message "/newbot" and configure your Bot (name, settings, etc.)
4. Create or view the API Token of that Bot
5. Copy the token and store it in the config file as shown above
6. Open the conversation with the Bot

Now the Bot should be ready to receive messages. If you send messages to the Bot while the frame is not running, nothing is happening. To get a reply on your sent photos, you must run the **main.py**. In most cases the script must run as *sudo*.

## Preparing your mailbox

To only get those mails downloaded that are intended for the photo frame, you should create a subfolder in your mailbox. By default the system awaits the folder name to be **"Smart Photo Frame"**. You can change it in the source code as you want.\
New mails should be moved automatically to this subfolder or sorted out by an inbox rule.

## Preparing your Owncloud account

For the possibility to let the frame download imaes from your owncloud account, a subfolder should be added to the root directory. All files added to this folder will be downloaded by the frame and automatically deleted from the owncloud account unlsess you deactivate the deletion by the config file.

## Creating the automatic run of the script

To run the frame automatically via bootup you additionally need to add the call of **main.py** to the "/etc/rc.local" file.

## Hardware enhancements

By adding hardware buttons to the RasPi you can offer your Frame users the possibility to handle the Frame. There are already preparations done for three buttons in sum. One button can be used to rise the display time of each photo in steps of 2 seconds. Another button can be used to lower the display time of each photo - down to 2 seconds. The third button can be used to properly shut down the whole RasPi (e.g. for moving from one place to another or at night).\
Those thre buttons are are mentioned to be installed on the following ports:
* Pin 27: Rise the timer
* Pin 19: Lower the timer
* Pin 9: Shut down the system

All ports are configured as Pull-Up ports and need to be connected to ground.\
For my use case I soldered them directly on the RasPi and gave the buttons that raise and lower the timer a higher hardware button.

## Open tasks

- [ ] Complete the replacement of all texts in english and german
- [x] Implement another interconnection between frame and sender (OwnCloud, Dropbox, etc.)
- [ ] Find a different presenter application to also display videos
